********************************************
  Python Wrappers for NI Vision (nivision)
********************************************

:Author: Peter Johnson, FRC Team 294
:Copyright: Copyright Â© 2012 Peter Johnson

About
=======

`NI Vision`_ is a `National Instruments` image/vision processing library.
It is available for multiple platforms including Windows and the
CompactRIO.  This project makes the functionality of NI Vision available
in the `Python` programming language.

.. _NI Vision: http://www.ni.com/vision/
.. _National Instruments: http://www.ni.com/
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/

Features
==========

*  Full wrapping of all structures, enumerations, and functions.

Requirements
==============

The wrappers currently require ctypes, so this library is currently not usable
on platforms that don't have ctypes.  Unfortunately this includes `RobotPy` as
of this writing, but this is being worked on.

.. _RobotPy: https://github.com/robotpy/robotpy

The wrappers have only been tested on Python 3.x.

Documentation
===============

The "NI Vision for LabWindows/CVI Function Reference" help file
(NIVisionCVI.chm) is currently the best "complete" reference.  However, the
Python wrappers deviate from the C library in several important ways:

*  All functions raise a nivision.ImaqError exception if an error occurs,
   rather than relying on nonzero or NULL return values.
*  Output parameters are returned as a tuple (in parameter order).  If the
   function additionally returns a value, this is returned as the first
   element of the tuple, followed by the output parameters.
*  Count/size/length parameters that specify the length of an array are
   handled implicitly by using Python's len() function.  This includes return
   values (which are returned as a sized array).  PARTIALLY IMPLEMENTED.

A few helper functions are provided due to the use of in/out parameters.

*  imaqGetCores(): Returns the number of cores available to NI Vision.
*  imaqSetCores(customNumCores): Sets the number of cores available to NI
   Vision.
*  imaqUseMaxAvailableCores(): Configures NI Vision to use the maximum number of
   available processor cores.

Implementation
================

Most of the wrapper code is generated by the gen_wrap.py script.  Hand-written
Python code in ctypes_core_prefix.py and ctypes_core_suffix.py complements the
automatically generated code.  The gen_wrap.py script creates nivision/core.py
which includes the contents of the prefix and suffix Python files.

As Priv_ReadJPEGString_C is not exported on current Windows distributions of
nivissvc.dll, a custom implementation that uses GDI+ has been written in
nivision/private.py and nivision/gdiplus.py.

License
=========

Copyright © 2010 Peter Johnson

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

.. vim: tw=80 et ts=3 sw=3 ft=rst fenc=utf-8
